[DOCS] Add HTTP client integration samples (#2587)
App-vNext/Polly: docs/community/http-client-integrations.md

# HTTP client integration samples

> The transient failures are inevitable for HTTP based communication as well. It is not a surprise that many developers want to use Polly with some HTTP client.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Transient failures are inevitable for HTTP based communication as well. It is not a surprise that many developers use Polly with an HTTP client to make there applications more robust.
```

> Here we have collected some of the most commonly used HTTP client libraries and how to integrate them with Polly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here we have collected some popular HTTP client libraries and show how to integrate them with Polly.
```

## Setting the stage

In the examples below we will register HTTP clients into a Dependency Injection container.

> Each time the same resilience strategy will be used to keep the samples focused on the HTTP client library integration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The same resilience strategy will be used each time to keep the samples focused on the HTTP client library integration.
```

<!-- snippet: http-client-integrations-handle-transient-errors -->
```cs
private static ValueTask<bool> HandleTransientHttpError(Outcome<HttpResponseMessage> outcome)
=> outcome switch
{
    { Exception: HttpRequestException } => PredicateResult.True(),
    { Result.StatusCode: HttpStatusCode.RequestTimeout } => PredicateResult.True(),
    { Result.StatusCode: >= HttpStatusCode.InternalServerError } => PredicateResult.True(),
    _ => PredicateResult.False()
};

private static RetryStrategyOptions<HttpResponseMessage> GetRetryOptions()
=> new()
{
    ShouldHandle = args => HandleTransientHttpError(args.Outcome),
    MaxRetryAttempts = 3,
    BackoffType = DelayBackoffType.Exponential,
    Delay = TimeSpan.FromSeconds(2)
};
```
<!-- endSnippet -->

> Here we create a strategy which will retry the HTTP request if the status code is either 408 or greater than 500 or an `HttpRequestException` was thrown.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here we create a strategy which will retry the HTTP request if the status code is either `408`, greater than or equal to `500`, or an `HttpRequestException` is thrown.
```

> The `HandleTransientHttpError` is a V8 port of the [`HttpPolicyExtensions.HandleTransientHttpError`](https://github.com/App-vNext/Polly.Extensions.Http/tree/master).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `HandleTransientHttpError` is method is equivalent to the [`HttpPolicyExtensions.HandleTransientHttpError`](https://github.com/App-vNext/Polly.Extensions.Http/blob/93b91c4359f436bda37f870c4453f25555b9bfd8/src/Polly.Extensions.Http/HttpPolicyExtensions.cs) method in the [App-vNext/Polly.Extensions.Http](https://github.com/App-vNext/Polly.Extensions.Http) repository.
```

> ## HttpClient based

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## With HttpClient
```

> We use the [`AddResilienceHandler`](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/microsoft.extensions.dependencyinjection.resiliencehttpclientbuilderextensions.addresiliencehandler) method to register our resilience strategy on the built-in [`HttpClient`](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/system.net.http.httpclient).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We use the [`AddResilienceHandler`](https://learn.microsoft.com/dotnet/api/microsoft.extensions.dependencyinjection.resiliencehttpclientbuilderextensions.addresiliencehandler) method to register our resilience strategy with the built-in [`HttpClient`](https://learn.microsoft.com/dotnet/api/system.net.http.httpclient).
```

<!-- snippet: http-client-integrations-httpclient -->
```cs
ServiceCollection services = new();

// Register a named HttpClient and decorate with a resilience pipeline
services.AddHttpClient(string.Empty)
        .ConfigureHttpClient(client => client.BaseAddress = DownstreamUri)
        .AddResilienceHandler("httpclient_based_pipeline",
            builder => builder.AddRetry(GetRetryOptions()));

var provider = services.BuildServiceProvider();

// Resolve the named HttpClient
var httpClientFactory = provider.GetRequiredService<IHttpClientFactory>();
var httpClient = httpClientFactory.CreateClient();

// Use the HttpClient by making a request
var response = await httpClient.GetAsync(new Uri("/408"));
```
<!-- endSnippet -->

> [!NOTE]
> The following packages are required to the above example:
>

> > - [Microsoft.Extensions.DependencyInjection](https://www.nuget.org/packages/microsoft.extensions.dependencyinjection): Required for the dependency injection structures

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> - [Microsoft.Extensions.DependencyInjection](https://www.nuget.org/packages/microsoft.extensions.dependencyinjection): Required for the dependency injection functionality
```

> > - [Microsoft.Extensions.Http](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.Extensions.Http/): Required for the `AddHttpClient` extension

Reviewer: This is a transient dependency of Microsoft.Extensions.Http.Resilience, so we can drop the need to document this.

```suggestion
```

> - [Microsoft.Extensions.Http.Resilience](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.Extensions.Http.Resilience): Required for the `AddResilienceHandler` extension

> ### Further readings for HttpClient

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Further reading for HttpClient
```

> - [Build resilient HTTP apps: Key development patterns](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/core/resilience/http-resilience)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Build resilient HTTP apps: Key development patterns](https://learn.microsoft.com/dotnet/core/resilience/http-resilience)
```

- [Building resilient cloud services with .NET 8](https://devblogs.microsoft.com/dotnet/building-resilient-cloud-services-with-dotnet-8/)

> ## Flurl based

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## With Flurl
```

> The named `HttpClient` registration and its decoration with our resilience strategy are the same as the built-in `HttpClient`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Flurl](https://flurl.dev/) is a URL builder and HTTP client library for .NET.

The named `HttpClient` registration and its decoration with our resilience strategy are the same as the built-in `HttpClient`.
```

> Here we create a `FlurlClient` which uses the decorated, named `HttpClient` to perform HTTP communication.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here we create a `FlurlClient` which uses the decorated, named `HttpClient` for HTTP requests.
```

<!-- snippet: http-client-integrations-flurl -->
```cs
ServiceCollection services = new();

// Register a named HttpClient and decorate with a resilience pipeline
services.AddHttpClient(string.Empty)
        .ConfigureHttpClient(client => client.BaseAddress = DownstreamUri)
        .AddResilienceHandler("flurl_based_pipeline",
            builder => builder.AddRetry(GetRetryOptions()));

var provider = services.BuildServiceProvider();

// Resolve the named HttpClient and create a new FlurlClient
var httpClientFactory = provider.GetRequiredService<IHttpClientFactory>();
var apiClient = new FlurlClient(httpClientFactory.CreateClient());

// Use the FlurlClient by making a request
var res = await apiClient.Request("/408").GetAsync();
```
<!-- endSnippet -->

> [!NOTE]
> The following packages are required to the above example:
>

> > - [Microsoft.Extensions.DependencyInjection](https://www.nuget.org/packages/microsoft.extensions.dependencyinjection): Required for the dependency injection structures

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> - [Microsoft.Extensions.DependencyInjection](https://www.nuget.org/packages/microsoft.extensions.dependencyinjection): Required for the dependency injection functionality
```

> > - [Microsoft.Extensions.Http](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.Extensions.Http/): Required for the `AddHttpClient` extension

Reviewer: As above.

```suggestion
```

> - [Microsoft.Extensions.Http.Resilience](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.Extensions.Http.Resilience): Required for the `AddResilienceHandler` extension
> - [Flurl.Http](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Flurl.Http/): Required for the `FlurlClient`

> ### Further readings for Flurl

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Further reading for Flurl
```

- [Flurl home page](https://flurl.dev/)

> ## Refit based

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## With Refit
```

> First let's define the API interface:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Refit](https://github.com/reactiveui/refit) is an automatic type-safe REST library for .NET.

First let's define the API interface:
```

<!-- snippet: http-client-integrations-refit-interface -->
```cs
public interface IHttpStatusApi
{
    [Get("/408")]
    Task<HttpResponseMessage> GetRequestTimeoutEndpointAsync();
}
```
<!-- endSnippet -->

> Then use the `AddRefitClient` to register the interface as typed HttpClient. Finally call `AddResilienceHandler` to decorate the underlying `HttpClient` with our resilience strategy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then use the `AddRefitClient` method to register the interface as a typed `HttpClient`. Finally we call `AddResilienceHandler` to decorate the underlying `HttpClient` with our resilience strategy.
```

<!-- snippet: http-client-integrations-refit -->
```cs
ServiceCollection services = new();

// Register a refit generated typed HttpClient and decorate with a resilience pipeline
services.AddRefitClient<IHttpStatusApi>()
        .ConfigureHttpClient(client => client.BaseAddress = DownstreamUri)
        .AddResilienceHandler("refit_based_pipeline",
            builder => builder.AddRetry(GetRetryOptions()));

// Resolve the typed HttpClient
var provider = services.BuildServiceProvider();
var apiClient = provider.GetRequiredService<IHttpStatusApi>();

// Use the refit generated typed HttpClient by making a request
var response = await apiClient.GetRequestTimeoutEndpointAsync();
```
<!-- endSnippet -->

> [!NOTE]
> The following packages are required to the above example:
>

> > - [Microsoft.Extensions.DependencyInjection](https://www.nuget.org/packages/microsoft.extensions.dependencyinjection): Required for the dependency injection structures

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> - [Microsoft.Extensions.DependencyInjection](https://www.nuget.org/packages/microsoft.extensions.dependencyinjection): Required for the dependency injection functionality
```

> > - [Microsoft.Extensions.Http.Resilience](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.Extensions.Http.Resilience): Required for the `AddResilienceHandler` extension

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> - [Refit.HttpClientFactory](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Refit.HttpClientFactory): Required for the `AddRefitClient` extension

### Further readings for Refit

- [Using ASP.NET Core 2.1's HttpClientFactory with Refit's REST library](https://www.hanselman.com/blog/using-aspnet-core-21s-httpclientfactory-with-refits-rest-library)
- [Refit in .NET: Building Robust API Clients in C#](https://www.milanjovanovic.tech/blog/refit-in-dotnet-building-robust-api-clients-in-csharp)

> - [Understand the Refit in .NET Core](https://medium.com/@jaimin_99136/understand-the-refit-in-net-core-ba0097c5e620)

Reviewer: While the original text is the actual title, I'd rather we fix the grammar.

```suggestion
- [Understand Refit in .NET Core](https://medium.com/@jaimin_99136/understand-the-refit-in-net-core-ba0097c5e620)
```

## RestSharp based

> The named `HttpClient` registration and its decoration with our resilience strategy are the same as the built-in `HttpClient`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[RestSharp](https://restsharp.dev/) is a simple REST and HTTP API Client for .NET.

The named `HttpClient` registration and its decoration with our resilience strategy are the same as the built-in `HttpClient`.
```

> Here we create a `RestClient` which uses the decorated, named `HttpClient` to perform HTTP communication.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here we create a `RestClient` which uses the decorated, named `HttpClient` for HTTP requests.
```

<!-- snippet: http-client-integrations-restsharp -->
```cs
ServiceCollection services = new();

// Register a named HttpClient and decorate with a resilience pipeline
services.AddHttpClient(string.Empty)
        .ConfigureHttpClient(client => client.BaseAddress = DownstreamUri)
        .AddResilienceHandler("restsharp_based_pipeline",
            builder => builder.AddRetry(GetRetryOptions()));

var provider = services.BuildServiceProvider();

// Resolve the named HttpClient and create a RestClient
var httpClientFactory = provider.GetRequiredService<IHttpClientFactory>();
var restClient = new RestClient(httpClientFactory.CreateClient());

// Use the RestClient by making a request
var request = new RestRequest("/408", Method.Get);
var response = await restClient.ExecuteAsync(request);
```
<!-- endSnippet -->

> [!NOTE]
> The following packages are required to the above example:
>

> > - [Microsoft.Extensions.DependencyInjection](https://www.nuget.org/packages/microsoft.extensions.dependencyinjection): Required for the dependency injection structures

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> - [Microsoft.Extensions.DependencyInjection](https://www.nuget.org/packages/microsoft.extensions.dependencyinjection): Required for the dependency injection functionality
```

> - [Microsoft.Extensions.Http.Resilience](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.Extensions.Http.Resilience): Required for the `AddResilienceHandler` extension

> > - [RestSharp](https://www.nuget.org/packages/RestSharp): Required for the `RestClient`, `RestRequest`, `RestResponse`, etc. structures

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> - [RestSharp](https://www.nuget.org/packages/RestSharp): Required for the `RestClient`, `RestRequest`, `RestResponse`, etc. types
```
